
https://cris.unu.edu/sites/cris.unu.edu/files/W-2009-22.pdf


**Measuring Market Integration**
A succinct way to measure globalization is the trade/gross domestic product (GDP) ratio, measured as the sum of the US dollar value of total exports and total imports over the region’s GDP. Over time, this ratio tends to increase for all major world regions including Asia, Europe, and America.

**Trade Integration**
 The two measures that are commonly used to examine the extent of regional interdependence are the share of intraregional trade over total trade, or intraregional trade share (IT Share), and the intensity with which a region trades with itself compared with its trade with the rest of the world, or intraregional trade intensity (IT Intensity). The IT Share is a more straightforward measure of interdependence, as it shows the relative importance of internal (intraregional) versus external trade dependence. The IT Intensity is a more sophisticated measure showing the region’s bias for trading within itself, that is, among partners located within the region.

**Foreign Direct Investment**
Another measure of the extent to which national markets are integrated regionally and globally is given by foreign direct investment (FDI). However, unlike trade data, FDI data are less comparable over time and across countries. National authorities in charge of issuing licenses for manufacturing operations—or agencies such as boards of investment or industrial development authorities—are usually the best sources for data on FDI. They typically classify ownership by nationality. But these data are very difficult to compare across countries because, for example, individual classifications followed over the years tend to change. Instead, balance of payments statistics, where FDI is included under the capital account, are a better source for cross-country and time-series comparisons. Unfortunately, it is difficult to get consistent data showing FDI inflows and outflows by country of origin and destination over the years.

**Financial Integration**
Two types of measure are often used to assess the extent of financial market integration: price indicators—to measure the degree to which the price of the same financials asset is equalized across countries—and quantity indicators to measure financial asset cross-border trade volume and holdings. To have a closer look at price indicators of financial integration, we examine cross-country correlations of financial asset returns by constructing the degree of co-movement of stock prices. When financial markets become more integrated we expect market movements of stock prices to become more closely associated with each other. Figure 6 shows the average of pairwise correlation coefficients of quarterly changes in stock price index in different regions. To calculate the correlation coefficients, we use quarterly data on stock exchange indexes, averaging daily data from Bloomberg5 and convert these indexes from national currencies into US dollars.

**People-to-People Exchange**
As production networks link Asia together, labor flows in the region increase together with the creation of new employment opportunities. Intraregional labor migration is induced by the expanding gaps in levels of economic development, incomes, population dynamics, skill imbalances, and policies designed to regulate the flow of people from suppliers to recipients of labor flows. But it is difficult to gain a clear picture of the labor migration flows from and to Asian countries, and particularly within the region. There is no good data set quantifying labor flows across countries over the years in a consistent manner. Collecting information on intraregional flows is even more challenging. Due to the lack of consistent and comparable information on labor migration, we construct a measure of intraregional flows of tourism (Figure 9), using data from the World Tourism Organization, as a proxy of a regional people-to-people exchange indicator.

